HOSTEL RESERVATION SYSTEM [HRS]:-
This project is an online HRS system that allows students to view various hostels
based on their needs and desires such as location of  the hostel, cost of the hostel etc
without facing the need to actually visit there.

The objective of the online HRS is to automate the hostel hunting and
allocation process and to create a convenient and easy-to-use application for
students, trying to book a room in a hostel.
The system is based on a relational database with its hostel management and
reservation functions.

This product will have a database server supporting number of major cities
around the country as well as hundreds of hostels by various hostel providers.
It provides a platform for students to reserve rooms at a hostel, online,
at a singular medium rather than having to go there personally for enquiries.
This allows the student to filter and find the most suitable hostel based on
their geographical, financial and personal needs.

THE MAJOR FEATURES OF THIS PROJECT ARE:-
HOSTEL SEARCHING:-
This feature enables users to search for hostels based on their requirements such as
location of hostel, cost of hostel, rating of the hostels, other features of the hostel etc.

HOSTEL RESERVATION:-
This feature allows users to apply for the reservation of a room(s) in a hostel
based of their choice.

SAFETY AND INTEGRITY:-
All the users who register / login on the website need to be validated so that sensitive information
such as which users reserved which hostel, availability of rooms in hostels etc cannot be leaked
to third party users or illegal users.


FUTURE SCOPE:-
This project currently supports multiple but few cities across the entire country.
But it will be modified and enhanced to support a large number of cities and a
huge number of hostels.
The support and quality provided to the users will improve.
The UI will upgraded to support the ever changing needs of the users and give them
a better interaction and experience.
The entire software will be updated to hold large amount of users 

TECH DETAILS:-
PHP5-
THis tool was used for working with the database structured to hold all the details of the
users, hostels and hostel managers.
The database connection and data processing has been done using the PHP5 tool.
The data representation on the web pages has been achieved using PHP5.

HTML5:-
This tool is used for designing the web pages and adding various important
components such as buttons, images, links to other pages etc.
The interactiveness of  the website has been achieved using HTML.

CSS:-
CSS was used to enhance the quality and design of the UI and make it more attractive.
This tool is used to make the web site more easy-to-use and understand.

JS:-
JS provides dynamic functionality to the web pages.
It was used ot manage most of the content on the pages
JS was also used to address the minor requirements such marking text boxes as required,
validate the entered password and provide multiple functions to improve the quality of
content displayed on the web page

PHPMYAdmin:-
This tool was used to create and manage database used for the project.
It is an wsy to use database management software and provides an interactive UI
for the developers to produce and manipulate the data.






